#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass IEEEtran
\begin_preamble
% for subfigures/subtables
\usepackage[caption=false,font=footnotesize]{subfig}
\end_preamble
\options conference
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package none
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command bibtex
\index_command default
\float_placement h
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_title "Your Title"
\pdf_author "Your Name"
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered true
\pdf_bookmarksopen true
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle false
\pdf_quoted_options "pdfpagelayout=OneColumn, pdfnewwindow=true, pdfstartview=XYZ, plainpages=false"
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 0
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 2
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
A Reduced Order Model for a TOV Study in a Solar PV Farm
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
\begin_inset Flex Author Name
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Ahmad
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

Abdullah
\end_layout

\end_inset


\begin_inset Flex Author Affiliation
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Electric Power Engineers, Inc
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

and the Department of Electrical Power and Machines 
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Cairo University, Faculty of Engineering
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Email: ahmad.abdullah@ieee.org
\end_layout

\end_inset


\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
and 
\end_layout

\end_inset


\begin_inset Flex Author Name
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Billy
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

Yancey
\end_layout

\end_inset


\begin_inset Flex Author Affiliation
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Electric Power Engineers, Inc
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Email: byancey@epeconsulting.com
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
With more solar photovoltaic (PV) farms coming online around the world,
 special system studies are needed.
 One of these studies is Transient Overvoltage (TOV) study.
 The main purpose of a TOV study is evaluating the capability of the surge
 arresters selected in the preliminary design stage of the project.
 To assess the capability of the surge arresters accurately, a detailed
 electromagnetic transient (EMT) model of the project has to be built.
 With the detailed EMT model of a large number of inverters included, the
 run time of the model becomes prohibitive even for a single scenario.
 In this paper, we propose a method to systematically reduce the order of
 the EMT model thus making the model suitable for TOV studies at the substation
 level.
 The reduced order model response is then benchmarked against the response
 of full order model for various TOV scenarios.
 Simulation results show identical or near-to identical agreement between
 the response of the detailed and the response of reduced order model.
 Additionally, the run time of the proposed reduced model is less than the
 run time of the full order model by a factor of ninety six.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
With the increased penertration of renewable energy into the grid, special
 sysem studyies are called upon to assess the impact of these project on
 various aspects of the power system.
 One of these aspect is evalaution the respince of surge arresrers (SA)
 within the substaiton.
 Assemsemt of the adequactu of the sruge arrester to the susbtaion invoves
 verigiy that the sirge arrester can ride through the TOV event saelt and
 that the TOV is limited to a resonable value.
 Histrically, assememt of SA has been done under speicif assuption about
 the waveform.
 For example, in converiolnal gas generation and under traditional transperfme
 connection in unearthed system, it is know thathte sinle line to ground
 can cause the phase to ground voltage to increase by a factor of 1.73.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
However, due to the nature of the technogoy eing used in reneable energy
 resources this might not be true.
 Reneable energy resources are genrally inverter based generation.
 These inverter incoprte a large number of switches and of various topolgies.This
 necessates building the reneabble in a EMT type software and assessing
 the performnace under various scenarios.
 Running such models in EMT softwares requires long simulatins times.
 It is thus not always possible to judge the capabioity of an arreser from
 the project ocofnguration and grounding scheme used.
 Thus, it is of atmost importance to develop a way to study the responce
 of surge arrester within the susbtsation.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Most equivalencing techingqes that equivlent the whole project for study
 as a whole as part of grid internconnection studyes.
 In this paper we provide a system way to reduce the order of the solar
 PV project.
 Each feeder of the collector system is reduced on its own to a simple generatio
n resornce and an impedance.
 Thus the number of the 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This section will introduce the motivation behind the paper, the statement
 of problem as well as provide some brief literature survey on the problem.
 The final organization of the paper will be provided here as well in the
 last paragraph of this section
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Methodology
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "sec:Methodology"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Just as any source can be represent by ints theiven's or norton equivaelet,
 the inverters withn the solar PV project can be mpdeled as a thevein or
 a norton source dpeening on the technogy.
 However, most PV onverter as a current source and as such, norton model
 would be most suitables.
 However, since the collecor system is only tunded for a freqeuncy in power
 flow studyes, the norton resitance is replace by a freqeuncy dpeenet impedance
 that captures the high freqeucny respince of the ffeder.
 The PV inverter is represneted as it is whether it is a prooety model or
 a user defined model.
 The only change in the PV model is to scale it up.
 This is shown in the two sections bellow.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Frequency Dependent Impedance
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "subsec:Frequency-Dependent-Impedance"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This will be about the frequency dependent model
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Inverter model
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "subsec:Solar-PV-model"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This is will be the inverter
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Application
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This section will provide a detailed overview on how to apply the methodology
 in PSCAD
\begin_inset Formula $^{TM}$
\end_inset

.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
System Model 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This section will provide an overview of the model used and its various
 components ( I will make sure we are not including any proprietary information)
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Scenarios
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Depending on the length of section 4, I will either have this section as
 a stand alone section or a join it with section 4.
 This section will talk about the various scenarios we did for benchmarking
 and how the cases were set up in PSCAD.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Results
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this section I will provide the results of the reduced order model and
 the full order model.
 Each case will have a graph that shows the voltage at the terminal of the
 surge arrester in one plot.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Conclusions
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "sec:Conclusions"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this paper a systematic way of reducing the order of solar PV farms has
 been presented.
 THe method is hsown to cature accuratly the response of the system under
 various transinet scenarios that may happen in in the susbstaion.
 THe method is shown to be much faster that the full order model which makes
 is useful in analyzing a large number of scneatios without the need for
 a highly cpaply computer.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
THe analysis in this paper is only limited to the SA in the substaion.
 IF the feeder have SA at the ends of the collector system- as usually the
 case- the method here will not be applicable but another method need to
 be used to study those arreaster.
 Theortically speaking hte SA in the substaion are the ones that are under
 the most severe duty, and if those arresters pass the evalaution, then
 all other SA in the susbtsaiton should be safe as well.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Appendices
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Don't add text here!
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
First appendix
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This section will probably contain generic modeling information.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
